Part of my PhD thesis involved the creation and management of the UC Berkeley Filippenko Group's [SuperNovae DataBase (SNDB)](http://heracles.astro.berkeley.edu/oldsndb/) (deprecated Feb 2015). The SNDB uses the popular open-source software stack known as LAMP: the Linux operating system, the Apache web server, the MySQL relational database management system, and the PHP server-side scripting language. I have also implemented instances of a few PHP helper classes. See Section 4 of [this paper](http://mnras.oxfordjournals.org/content/425/3/1789.full.pdf) for more information regarding the SNDB. This folder includes a couple examples of PHP code that produce MySQL commands to search the SNDB and then display the results on a webpage.

Code in this folder include:

- search_public.php - This is the main piece of code that underlies the SNDB. A user fills in an HTML form on a separate webpage defining various search criteria and requesting specific output fields. The data from that form are then passed to this piece of code which parses the input and builds a large MySQL query (using some external functions defined in searchfunction.php, see below). The query is executed and the results are displayed to a search results page in an HTML table, including various ways to view and download the returned data itself as well as the entire table of returned entries.

- searchfunction.php - Defines a few helper functions that are used in search_public.php (see above) given the user input from the HTML  form page. Some of the functions include: returning values of only the checked checkbox options from the HTML form, turning a pair of input values into a MySQL-searchable range of values, and updating the current MySQL query with new parameters or clauses.
